( Watch on Kissasia.vip )
♪Only after bloom comes fruit♪
♪Who says glory must fade to the past♪
♪Only through thunder
do you reach the clouds♪
♪Who made you the crown of every peak♪
♪I stand at the center of the stage♪
♪My shadow is pinned against the wall♪
♪Facing the light earns every medal♪
♪Little birds,
save your needless pecking♪
♪The open sky rises high♪
♪When night falls,
the moon begins to shine♪
♪I stand in the heart of these lands♪
♪My shadow bears no crown or robe♪
♪Then I know truth needs no disguise♪
♪The green hills see me as I am♪
♪Like dew, lightning,
and moon on the river♪
♪Showing me exactly who I am♪
=The Lead=
=Episode 2=
That should set Huang Zhengjing straight.
Let's see if he still spends all day
having heart-to-hearts with women.
What happened to your leg?
I took a spill off my bike.
I'm fine. Just a scrape,
no broken bones.
You're always so reckless.
You get hurt doing just about anything.
Watch what you do. The kid's here.
That's your sister's kid?
Why is she dressed like a beggar?
You didn't pick the kid up outside, did you?
Raised herding sheep,
now she looks like one.
Didn't you say
she was pretty good-looking,
and could sing and dance at school?
That one didn't come. They sent another.
This is Aunt Hua.
Aunt Hua is the troupe's star performer.
She'll be your teacher someday.
This kid...
I didn't agree to that.
What's wrong with her?
She's perfectly fine.
Arms and legs all there.
And she runs really fast.
I can't even catch up to her.
Then send her to sports school.
How's her voice?
Well, she's not mute.
Huang Zhengjing held a meeting yesterday
and said that this round of recruitment
will treat internal
and external applicants equally,
with no special favors for anyone.
Sounds like that was aimed at you.
You're always so full of yourself.
Now they've got something on you, huh?
When was I ever full of myself?
You're quite arrogant.
If he wants my respect,
he should act like a real man first.
When it's time to bow your head,
don't be so stiff all the time,
standing there all hard and rigid.
I'll stay stiff. What's he gonna do?
Nothing. He can't do a thing.
Smells like goat droppings.
Hasn't she bathed in a year?
What's her name?
Laidi.
The full name?
It's just Yi Laidi.
That sounds so rustic.
Let's give her a new name.
Yi Qing'e.
What does it mean?
Still thinking about her?
All this old grime,
we've got to scrub it all off.
He's coming home next month.
I'm going to ask him for a divorce.
I'm talking to you.
I need to clean up this wound.
Hang in there.
♪The red flag of great progress♪
♪Waves in the wind♪
♪Blue skies and water mirror the clouds♪
Mi Lan.
What are you doing?
Sanyuan.
Provincial leaders are coming tomorrow.
Ms. Hua rehearses in the day,
and I practice at night.
You're singing
Xiang Yang Hong in the dark?
Are you okay?
Only with the lights off
can I really feel it.
Feel what?
A whole crowd filling the seats below,
listening as I perform opera.
Stop talking about it.
You're giving me chills.
No wonder Gou said
all kinds live in this courtyard.
As long as I can be on stage,
I'll sing for anyone, even spirits.
I hurt my leg.
I'll put on some gentian violet
to avoid infection.
You take your time singing.
What happened to you?
I fell and hurt my leg.
That's pretty bad.
Let me take you to the hospital.
I'm tough. It's not that serious.
Some medicine will do.
Easy, easy. Be gentle, okay?
So you do feel pain.
You think I'm numb or what?
Didn't you say you're tough?
That should just feel numb, right?
I go numb, but the flesh doesn't.
- Hang in there.
- Easy, easy.
Sanyuan,
let me ask you something.
How do you play that drum of yours?
How does it hit someone's weak spot?
Caixiang told me about it.
She said your drum could hit her spot
and make her want to sing out loud.
What's that supposed to feel like?
Don't listen to her nonsense.
The way you put it gives me chills.
A drumstick only hits the drumhead.
How could it hit any weak spot?
Just look at the wind.
Easy, easy. Be gentle.
Look at yourself now.
You even cut her hair.
See how nicely I fixed her up.
She takes after her uncle.
Can't be too bad.
She looks alright, I guess.
Can you sing?
Sing a song for me.
Yeah, sing one for your aunt.
Give Aunt Hua a little surprise.
I Love Beijing Tian'anmen.
Do you know that one?
I Found a Penny by the Roadside.
What a surprise.
This kid's good.
A blank sheet of paper.
You can write or draw anything on it.
Then why not turn in a blank test?
That's not the same thing.
This trainee recruitment round
only comes once in ten years.
I heard even people from the regions
and the counties are all applying.
There are only 30 spots.
The competition is fierce.
Keep that in mind.
Even then, it needs a ruling.
There are five chief examiners.
One vote from you, one from me.
One from Zhu Jiru.
One from Director Glasses.
Huang Zhengjing is just this.
So his objection means nothing.
What is it?
Why does it still smell funky?
There's nothing.
Those clothes.
Alright, alright.
That pile of clothes there.
Take those away, now.
Go, go, go.
Gotta toss them away.
Where are you going?
Master Song.
Why are you sitting here?
Why's the kid up the tree again?
What a troublemaker.
Go live in that tree if you can.
What are you doing?
Taking these old clothes
and tossing them in the stove to burn.
My niece is from the countryside.
She can't bear to throw them out.
I'll burn them.
The stove's covered up.
Just leave them there for now.
Leave those clothes to me.
What do you want with those rags?
Shoes Bai can turn them into a costume.
You're really hung up on those rags.
Shoes Bai.
What are you doing?
Fixing the white-haired girl's wig.
You look pretty scary.
What is it?
I'd like you to alter the kid's clothes.
Hu Sanyuan's niece.
She just got here today.
These are her old clothes.
Use them to make a costume.
Wash them first. They smell.
Come on in.
Come in.
Take off your wig.
(Xi)
What are you doing?
What is all this?
You'll sleep against the wall.
We have to get up early tomorrow.
Aunt Hua will warm up your voice.
Let the kid sleep with me.
She's grown now.
She can't sleep with you.
Those gossips will start talking again.
Already covered in lice,
and now you're afraid of getting bitten?
Go.
How did I end up with lice?
♪Who helped us turn things around?♪
♪Who helped set us free?♪
♪Our dear PLA did♪
♪And our savior, the CPC♪
♪The soldiers and people are one family♪
♪Let's help them wash their clothes♪
Good.
We give up, we give up, we give up!
We're soaked.
Think of it as a bath.
Open the window.
Open it.
Where are you from?
You're here for the troupe too?
My name is Bayi.
What's your name?
How do they test you?
I want to try out too.
Why aren't you saying anything?
Are you mute?
Who's there?
You scared me.
What are you looking at?
Keep staring, and I'll smash you.
Since when did the yard
get so many fools?
♪In the dead of night♪
♪We wait for dawn♪
♪In winter, we wait for spring♪
♪If we hope for the Red Army♪
♪The hills bloom with Azalea♪
What's with the smile?
Don't listen, and don't learn it.
That's a flirt's way of singing. Got it?
Go to sleep.
♪Azalea♪
This is Mr. Qiu.
Be sweeter when you see him.
He handles meals. You'll eat well.
Laidi, time to get up.
Get up now.
Up.
From now on, warm up your voice
every morning, got it?
First thing,
relax your facial muscles.
Then we'll do a yawn.
Come on, follow me.
Open your mouth wide.
Why do we yawn?
You'll notice when you yawn,
your soft palate,
that little dangly thing,
does this.
Then lower the back of your tongue.
That way, the more you open up,
the brighter your voice will be.
Got it?
She's talking to you. Stand up straight.
Don't lean over there.
Come on, yawn.
This little rascal
climbed onto the roof.
You'll fall and break your neck.
Go on, move.
Come on.
Watch closely.
Yawn. Open your mouth.
This kid, make a sound.
At home, you're always yelling.
Make a sound. Open wider.
Make a sound. Your aunt's teaching you.
Did you bring me
a mute kid to teach opera?
What nonsense. How is she mute?
Make a sound.
You two are really something.
Having a mute kid perform opera?
Get lost.
Open your mouth wide.
Open up. Open up.
Call out.
Hu Sanyuan.
Section Chief Guo wants you
at the security office.
Why all the fuss this early?
It's a good thing.
Learn properly from your aunt.
Come on, yawn.
Something big happened in the troupe
yesterday, you know?
Yeah, I know.
I'm telling you, this is very serious.
Framing and slandering
the Revolutionary Committee leaders
constitutes a major
counter-revolutionary case.
So what if it's serious?
Why are you yelling at me?
Director Huang said
if the anonymous letter writer
confesses voluntarily,
it'll be dealt with
as an internal civil conflict.
What if the writer doesn't confess?
Then it's an enemy-people contradiction.
Fine, I'll confess.
I didn't write the letter.
No idea who did.
And if I did know, I wouldn't tell you.
Come here and copy this letter for me.
Why should I?
I'm asking you
to assist the Security Section.
And if I don't?
Then go to the Public Security Bureau.
Alright, alright, you win. You're tough.
Just hear me out.
What?
You're not up to this.
Hand it to the police.
(East wind blows,
war drums roll)
(Who in the world fears any soul?)
East wind blows...
You scoundrel!
Needs a good talking-to.
♪Socialism is good, so great♪
♪Our people stand tall in this state♪
♪Old hostile forces fell in defeat♪
♪Foreign intruders fled in retreat♪
♪All folk throughout the land unite♪
♪Build socialism with all our might♪
Here.
Take a bite.
Come on.
Three steamed buns.
Hu Sanyuan.
How long's your niece staying?
What's wrong?
Meals at the canteen cost money.
Put it on your tab.
I'll settle it when I'm paid.
She's counted at the adult rate.
Why is that?
She's still just a little kid.
You're even scheming money off a kid.
Other kids can, but not yours.
What does it mean?
What does that mean?
Slow down, slow down.
Here.
What are you all looking at?
Watching the kid eat.
Let her eat.
Why watch a kid eat steamed buns?
Eat.
Hurry up.
Come on, hurry up.
Okay, okay, here, take it.
Hurry up.
What are you doing?
We're making a bet
over a pack of cigarettes.
Betting on what?
How many steamed buns she can eat.
How many steamed buns can she eat?
How many has she had?
Five.
She's had five buns?
Five of these big steamed buns?
Don't eat any more.
Director Zhu is here.
Tang, well,
could you step out for a moment?
I need to discuss
something with Director.
Come on, quick, quick.
What's it?
Something important.
Right, right, right.
Okay.
Here.
What's this?
(Certificate: Yi Laidi
of Ningzhou County)
(Needs to join the County
Opera Troupe tryout)
(Jiuyangou People's Commune
Revolutionary Committee)
She's your own niece?
Family ties run deep.
So of course she's close.
As of now,
our troupe has over 300 kids signed up.
We're only taking 30.
That's one in a hundred.
There are people
from every side above us,
making calls and sending notes.
There aren't enough spots.
Zhu, you can't do me this small favor?
What's the kid's family background?
She's from a poor
and lower-middle peasant family.
Can she sing?
She can.
She sings and dances at home.
Why not let the kid answer for herself?
Don't be scared.
If you can sing, sing one for me.
Even humming would do.
She can't sing.
She just got here yesterday.
Got carsick on the way.
It left her feeling run-down.
Her throat hurts so much
that she can barely speak.
Don't worry, she's not mute.
None of those 300-plus kids are mute.
People live off what's around them.
Those closest get the first chance.
When any workplace is hiring,
don't they favor their own kids first?
Good that you're here.
Director Huang asked me to tell you,
you and Hua Caixiang won't join
the trainee recruitment work.
Why not?
The anonymous letter caused trouble.
Hua Caixiang isn't fit
to be an examiner.
Hua Caixiang's innocent, right?
You know very well
what kind of person she is.
So what if I do know?
And why can't I join?
They need politically
conscious examiners.
I'm not that kind of examiner?
You don't get to decide that.
What I say doesn't count either.
You're the kid's uncle.
Do you think it's proper
for you to be the examiner?
What's improper about that? I...
Come on.
Let's register her first.
Don't worry. I'll make sure you pass.
Hu Sanyuan.
The kid's clothes are ready.
What's this?
It's for the kid.
Go on, say thank-you.
You're welcome.
Thanks.
Who'd they swap us out for?
He Dachui and Mi Lan.
Where are you going?
I'm gonna find Huang Zhengjing.
Why do you flare up so fast?
What do you mean, flare up?
He's clearly pushing us around.
He really thinks I'm a pushover.
Alright, alright.
No one's treating you like a pushover.
They see you as a tough woman,
waiting for you to take him on.
If I don't take him down, I...
Alright, alright. Calm down.
Calm down.
Let it go.
Fine, fine.
Being an examiner means nothing to me.
What did Sly Zhu say?
What was his attitude?
He didn't say a thing.
If he said anything more,
he wouldn't be Sly Zhu.
He Dachui,
Huang Zhengjing's favorite.
Mi Lan's on Huang Zhengjing's side too.
Zhu Jiru goes with the wind.
Only Director Glasses has some loyalty.
Just a little, though.
What's the count now?
It's still four to one.
It's turned around now.
Keep being arrogant then.
Why won't you say anything?
Is speaking up that hard?
Why are you yelling at the kid?
Can't you see we two
are worried sick over your issue?
If you won't speak,
the score means nothing.
In this situation,
talking won't help either.
Let's hurry and figure this out.
The three of us split the work.
You get to open up and sing.
You teach her to sing properly.
I'll handle the rest.
I just can't believe it.
♪In the dead of night♪
Sing it louder.
♪We wait for dawn♪
♪In winter♪
Sing it out.
♪We wait for spring♪
♪If we hope for♪
Ms. Mi Lan.
Caixiang.
Congratulations.
You're even an examiner now.
Director Huang told me last minute.
I wasn't mentally ready for this.
So what's going on here?
This is Hu Sanyuan's niece.
She wants to try for the troupe.
I brought her to test her vocal range.
Whose child is she?
Hello, Ms. Hua.
I'm Chu Jiahe. I'm twelve this year.
I've seen you perform opera.
I really look up to you.
The girl's quite bright-looking.
And she's quick with words too.
That's thanks to my teacher.
It's more about your family guidance.
Her dad is a county official.
Her mom works at
the County Bureau of Culture.
She wants to join the troupe too.
Director Huang asked me
to coach her properly.
Nice. You're teaching students now.
I'm just helping out.
Main thing is, this kid's got talent.
A real promising one.
Then you two carry on.
You teach first.
Take a break
and learn well, okay?
Okay.
(The city girl, as pretty as a flower)
(and with a voice
straight out of the radio)
(was like a mirror)
(that stripped the shepherd girl)
right back to her true self.)
(In winter, we hope for the Red Army)
Do you know it?
Say something.
You don't know this?
Is she nervous?
Chu Jiahe, give her a demo.
Do re mi fa so la.
This is one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven.
Got it?
Her voice is a little tight.
And the range isn't that high either.
A bit like yours, kind of a thin voice.
Pretty annoying, right?
Hey, you and me,
let's go work on posture.
Listen to me.
Breath support is key to perform opera.
Every time you sing, inhale first.
Then sink the breath to dantian.
Let it pass the abdomen, chest, throat,
then throw it out.
If you're singing high notes,
it also goes through the nose, head,
and out through here.
Throw it as far as you can
and as loud as you can.
Watch me.
Got it?
Give it a try.
Come on.
Let's sing it together.
Come on, take a breath.
One, two, three.
Sing.
What's wrong? What's wrong?
A snake.
Nobody move. Stay still.
Laidi!
You...
♪Your kid is impressive♪
It's not even dry yet.
I heard you dare catch snakes.
You can catch a snake,
so why can't you speak up?
You're not really mute, are you?
It's okay. I have no friends here.
You don't have one either, right?
Let's be friends.
My name is Bayi.
Come on, follow me.
Here, eat this.
I've hidden lots of roasted potatoes.
If you're hungry, dig here.
I want to try for the troupe too.
I can do martial arts. Look.
Hey, what are you doing?
A whole pot of steamed buns.
You ruined a whole pot of steamed buns.
You can't even tend the fire right.
What can you do, then?
I don't want to tend fires.
I wanna perform.
You can't even roast a sweet potato.
Dream on.
Why does she get to?
Her uncle is the drum accompanist.
Your dad's just a cook.
Tell me why.
You can't sing, so I'll do it.
♪Back when my old unit♪
Shut it, you troublemaker.
What are you doing?
What?
I'm just singing a little.
I'm leaving.
I'll deal with you, you punk.
Kid.
Go this way. It's shorter here.
Tell your uncle
we're having meat today.
Tell him to come early.
Did you hear me?
Why's this kid mute?
How can a mute kid try for the troupe?
Master Song, the coal's burnt out.
Why aren't you helping me?
- I'm cutting meat. My hands are full.
- Hurry up.
Come on, open this steamer for me.
Come on, come on.
Master Song.
Li and Zhang are here to help.
- You two made it.
- Welcome, welcome.
Welcome, welcome.
Here.
Master Song.
This meat looks good.
What is it?
Slice it a little thinner.
This thin works?
- Where is it?
- Right here.
Where is it?
There is no meat left.
You sliced it all up.
You sure do talk a lot of nonsense.
Qiu, go peel some scallions, hurry.
Potatoes. Okay, okay.
You want it thinner?
Once it's all stirred up, you miss it.
Can't help it.
There are too many people around.
If they don't see meat in the bowl,
they will start complaining.
Neither plain food nor rich fare
can ever please them.
People
never really feel satisfied inside.
There's never enough people.
They keep saying add more staff.
You can't keep asking for help.
They'll come when it's time.
Don't worry.
Master Song.
Thinner.
Tell me why you stay quiet.
Do you know why I had you
learn to perform opera?
Life in Jiuyangou was too hard for you.
And your mom had
a little brother for you.
It'd be even harder to feed you.
Before, I helped your mom and dad.
But I'm not that young anymore.
One day, I'll have my own family too.
I won't be able to help you then.
What will you do then?
If you get into the troupe,
you've got to help your mom and dad.
You'll need to support the whole family.
That'd be helping me too, got it?
Just say something.
If you speak up and still aren't cut out
for perform opera or this line of work,
then I can let it go.
Okay? Say something.
You're driving me crazy.
We're having meat today.
They told you to go early.
Who said that?
Bayi's dad.
See?
You finally said something.
Was talking really that hard?
But I didn't mean talking about meat.
If you get into the opera troupe,
I'm telling you,
we'll have meat every week.
One meat meal every week, got it?
Did you get what I said?
When you're out there, can you talk?
Come on, move. We're having meat today.
Coming, coming.
(Who would've thought)
(all that coaxing and scaring failed,)
(Today's Menu)
(but a meat meal)
(Pork Stew, Shredded Potatoes)
got Yi Qing'e to finally speak.
Everyone's smelling the meat.
What's going on? Why isn't it open yet?
Hu Sanyuan!
It's open.
Line up. Line up.
We're in line, we're in line.
The kid just ran off to pee.
Look, we almost lost first place.
Our bowl's been sitting right here.
We're in line.
Come on, come on.
Hand in the kid's meal ticket.
I'll pay you when I get my wages.
No running a tab.
Oh, Qiu, you...
You asking for a scolding again?
♪Braised pork,
steamed pork with rice flour♪
♪There's barely any meat in there♪
♪Stewed noodles, braised cabbage♪
♪There's nothing but bones♪
♪Nothing but bones♪
♪The cook, the one running the kitchen♪
♪Big and chubby as can be♪
Who are you cursing at?
How'd you catch that?
Sorry. Didn't mean to.
I was talking about Qiu.
It's obviously you, a bad influence.
Don't shake. Easy now.
Give me a few slices of fatty meat.
Alright.
The kid spoke up.
Teach her to sing later.
I can't.
We're rehearsing this afternoon.
Rehearse for what?
Go on, go eat over there.
Making a living in perform opera
isn't for just anyone.
It depends if heaven gave you that gift.
In here,
every costume is a different role.
Getting dressed and stepping onstage
are no easy thing.
To wear the lead's costume
and stand center stage
is even harder.
So your first lesson
is to have a goal.
If you sing, be the lead.
This is Li Tiemei's costume.
I'm the one wearing it.
As for Mi Lan,
she lacks the fate and skill
to be the lead.
Later, at rehearsal,
don't just watch how I sing.
Watch her in the audience too.
See how she copies me.
Of course,
don't copy the envy in her eyes.
Leave that part out.
She's only fit to be my shadow,
waiting for me
to break a leg
or lose my voice or something,
so I can't go on or sing.
One mountain can hold many sheep,
but not two tigers.
The stage works the same way.
Got it?
You're here.
You came early.
There you are.
Morning.
Sit here and watch. Watch closely.
Let's begin, Director.
Hua Caixiang.
Let me tell you something.
About tonight's show,
Mi Lan is performing.
Why?
You've done this so many times.
Give Mi Lan a chance.
This is pretty sudden.
Tonight's for the big leaders.
Well,
tonight's performance
reflects on the whole troupe,
so we must be careful with casting.
About that rumor involving you,
the impact has been very bad.
Until it's fully cleared up,
the organization has decided
to stop all your gigs.
Director Huang,
how can you
and your family both
fall for that flirting thing?
Hua Caixiang,
you need to trust the organization.
We'll find who started that rumor.
Then I'm really curious.
Did the anonymous letter
mention my name?
If it didn't,
then about the heroine,
if both the A-cast
and the B-cast are leads,
then nobody needs to sing at all.
Let's switch the show, Director.
Taking Tiger Mountain by Strategy.
Hua Caixiang.
Director Huang got the worst of it.
He wanted everyone to improve
and spoke to them one by one, right?
He talked to one of the women,
and got used by someone instead.
He's the biggest victim here.
Hu Sanyuan.
Drop the sarcasm, will you?
Director Huang,
I'm honestly speaking up for you.
How's that sarcasm to you?
Let me play the drum tonight.
What are you doing?
You hate the show and doze off drumming.
I'm not sleepy. I'll play it.
At my level,
it should be...
Director Huang.
Director Huang, what do you think?
Even Mi Lan would get on stage.
How about I play for the leaders?
As for creative matters,
Deputy Director Zhu decides.
Director Zhu,
what do you think?
Hu Sanyuan is the band leader.
Band matters are his call.
His call?
That guy wouldn't let me play.
How am I worse than him?
Am I worse than him?
He Dachui's drumming is a mess.
If he plays, I can't sing.
=The Lead=
(Preview)
Today, I'll take you in
from the front door.
Let's see who the lead is.
Tonight depends on you.
For no reason at all,
now, we can't even perform.
Just you wait.
Tonight, I'll pound the drum to pieces.
Why are you freaking out like this?
The scenery plank.
The one with the character Xi.
Give me the kid.
Why put up a scarecrow?
Who did it?
I finally found
that feeling when the drumbeat
hits just right.
So, you're Hu Sanyuan?
What's this about?
Come with us.
♪When I woke up and turned back♪
♪I wasn't sure where to go♪
♪We met and brushed past♪
♪Your shadow drifted out of sight♪
♪The stove fire blazed in my dream♪
♪Lit up the tracks of pearly tears♪
♪In my dream, water sleeves flew♪
♪Hiding a lifetime of love♪
♪The Qinling Mountains
crossed the stage♪
♪Spring water brewed strong wine♪
♪Sheep moved through the valley♪
♪It felt like a promise
from another life♪
♪When I woke up and turned back♪
♪I wasn't sure where to go♪
♪If I chose again, I'd still roam♪
♪All over this sunlit plateau♪
♪The dream ends; the curtain falls♪
♪Moonlight washes off this stage makeup♪
♪The one in the mirror wears gray hair♪
♪Already sang all my joy and sorrow♪
♪Already shouted across Qinchuan Plain♪